Update use-structured-outputs.mdx (#4375)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/generative-apis/how-to/use-structured-outputs.mdx

## Types of structured outputs

- **Structured outputs (schema mode)**:
   - Type `{"type": "json_schema"}`
   - This mode enforces a strict schema format, where the output adheres to the predefined structure.
   - Supports complex types and validation mechanisms as per the [JSON schema specification](https://json-schema.org/specification/), including nested schemas composition (`anyOf`, `allOf`, `oneOf` etc), `$ref`, `all` types, and regular expressions.

- **JSON mode** (Legacy method):
   - Type: `{"type": "json_object"}`
   - This mode is non-deterministic and allows the model to output a JSON object without strict validation.
   - Useful for flexible outputs when you expect the model to infer a reasonable structure based on your prompt.

>    - JSON mode is older and has been used by developers since early API implementations but lack reliability in response formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - JSON mode is older and has been used by developers since early API implementations, but lacks reliability in response formats.
```

<Message type="note">

>     - All LLMs on the Scaleway library support **Structured outputs** and **JSON mode**. However, schemaless **JSON mode** will produce lower quality result and is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - All LLMs on the Scaleway library support **Structured outputs** and **JSON mode**. However, a schemaless **JSON mode** will produce lower quality results and is not recommended.
```

>     - All LLMs on the Scaleway library support **Structured outputs** and **JSON mode**. However, a schemaless **JSON mode** will produce lower quality results and is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - All LLMs in the Scaleway library support **Structured outputs** and **JSON mode**. However, a schemaless **JSON mode** will produce lower quality results and is not recommended.
```

    ```
</Message>

> The following Python examples demonstrate how to use both **Structured outputs** and to generate structured responses.

Reviewer: Something is wrong here!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following Python examples demonstrate how to use **Structured outputs** to generate structured responses.
```

    ```
</Message>

The following Python examples demonstrate how to use both **Structured outputs** and to generate structured responses.

> We will send to our LLM a voice note transcript in order to structure it.
> Below is our base code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are using the base code below to send our LLM a voice note transcript to structure:
```

  When using the OpenAI SDKs like in the examples above, you are expected to set `additionalProperties` to false, and to specify all your properties as required.
</Message>

### Using JSON mode (schemaless, Legacy method)

<Message type="important">

>   - When using the OpenAI SDKs like in the examples above, you are expected to set `additionalProperties` to false, and to specify all your properties as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - When using the OpenAI SDKs as in the examples above, you are expected to set `additionalProperties` to false, and to specify all your properties as required.
```

  When using the OpenAI SDKs like in the examples above, you are expected to set `additionalProperties` to false, and to specify all your properties as required.
</Message>

### Using JSON mode (schemaless, Legacy method)

> <Message type="warning">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Message type="important">
```

  - When using the OpenAI SDKs like in the examples above, you are expected to set `additionalProperties` to false, and to specify all your properties as required.

>   - JSON mode: It is important to explicitly ask the model to generate a JSON output either in system prompt or user prompt. To prevent infinite generations, model providers most often encourage users to ask the model for short JSON objects. Prompt example: `Only answer in JSON using '{' as the first character.`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - JSON mode: It is important to explicitly ask the model to generate a JSON output either in the system prompt or user prompt. To prevent infinite generations, model providers most often encourage users to ask the model for short JSON objects. Prompt example: `Only answer in JSON using '{' as the first character.`.
```

```python
extract = client.chat.completions.create(
    messages=[
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "The following is a voice message transcript. Only answer in JSON using '{' as the first character.",
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": TRANSCRIPT,
        },
    ],
    model=MODEL,
    response_format={
        "type": "json_object",
    },
)
output = json.loads(extract.choices[0].message.content)
print(json.dumps(output, indent=2))
```

Output example:
```json
{
  "current_time": "6:30 PM",
  "tasks": [
    {
      "task": "water the plants in the garden",
      "priority": "high"
    },
    {
      "task": "prepare dinner (pasta with garlic bread)",
      "priority": "high"
    },
    {
      "task": "catch up on phone calls",
      "priority": "medium"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Conclusion

Using structured outputs with LLMs can significantly improve their reliability, especially to implement agentic use cases.

- **Structured outputs** provide strict adherence to a predefined schema, ensuring consistency.
- **JSON mode** (Legacy Method) is flexible but less predictable.

> We recommend using Structured outputs (`json_schema`) for most use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend using structured outputs (`json_schema`) for most use cases.
```
